# History

I, Alberto Rodriguez Orozco, was building a small application for my family business, I tried many open source alternatives and they were not what I was expecting, then I looked up for a paid alternative but the prices were not affordable for me as a just graduated student who wanted to build an application.

I decided to give me a try and try to build a simple chart control, a really simple one that took me a week, the first version included only Lines, Pies and Bars plots, I liked the results so I decided to share it to the GitHub community, this was by september 2015.

I was really excited about the community growing and the control being used by other developers, I was getting feedback that taught me a lot, then by March 2016 I decided to take the framework more seriously and spend more time on it, many new series and features were added.

One of the main problems of this first version was that it had a poor performance, so I decided to investigate about it, this is how the first high performance framework was released by november 2016 with the name of LiveCharts.Geared, every time the library was requesting more of my time, so I decided to set a price for it, with the only idea to keep the project alive, I would code for free, I love doing it, sadly life does not agree with me, and money is necessary to keep things working.

After hearing a lot of feedback from the library support mail and the Gitter chat room, I knew many things that could be improved, and I felt that I could offer something much better to all the people who trusted me and supported the library by buying the Geared package.

By first I tried to patch the current code, but I had learned a lot in the process, and there were many things in the old code structure that I was not happy with.

After a long dilemma I decided that the best for the project was to write everything from scratch, this is how version 1.0 was born at may 2018, this version finally targets performance and memory usage, is designed to be cross platform, fixes many things that felt not correct for me anymore,  and improves the code quality drastically.

I am sure there are many things to improve yet, and many lessons to learn, but I am here ready for the challenge the idea is to keep the project alive and help as many developers as possible, I really hope LiveCharts helps you to achieve your project!